---
layout: post
title: Kaggle – Data Science London + Scikit-learn (Using k-nn in R)
date: 2013-12-31 19:11
author: siddhantj
comments: true
categories: [Kaggle R MATLAB, Machine Learning]
---
<p>This post won't make much sense unless you have seen this post as well: <a href="http://siddhantj.wordpress.com/2013/12/31/kaggle-data-science-london-scikit-learn-using-svm-in-r/">http://siddhantj.wordpress.com/2013/12/31/kaggle-data-science-london-scikit-learn-using-svm-in-r/</a></p><p> </p><p>Alright, so moving on.</p><p> </p><p>I implemented the k-nearest neighbour model next and there was a significant improvement in my leader-board ranking (16 positions!) and a 2.5% increment in my accuracy. I tried two different values for k: 5 and 15. For k=15, my accuracy dropped slightly(0.3%) and hence k=5 seems to be a giving a decent value. I am left with just one more allowed submission in the next 6 hours and I am tempted to try another value of k (12, no sound logical reasoning behind the number. Just a hunch.)</p><p>I ended up spending a lot of time in order to figure out how to use KNN in R. Have little or no idea about the data types in R which is where I got stuck. So far, I have been floating by looking at examples and learning. Hoping, that I will eventually learn about R as well. Most of my time went in solving a trivial error that was there because my variable that stored the labels of the training set was not of the type - <em>Factor</em>. The problem and the solution  that I ended up using are almost exactly explained <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/16276388/knn-in-r-train-and-class-have-different-lengths">here</a></p><p>Again, appending the commands that worked:</p><blockquote><p>#assuming train,test and trainLabels are as defined in the previous post</p><p>cl=trainLabels[,1]</p><p>answer&lt;- knn(train,test,cl, k=5)</p><p>write.csv &lt;-(answer,"answer2.csv") </p><p> </p><p> </p></blockquote><p>PS: I did try that k=12 hunch and failed. Must learn how to do cross-validation next. </p>
